Now we spent a lot of time
on this state here
and it showed a lot of alternatives
but up to this point of course
we're not doing too much
with that state.
That's what I wanna change now, though.
Now I wanna make sure that
this form can be submitted
when this button is pressed
and that then
we basically gather
these different state slices here
and combine them into one object
which for the moment
is then just locked to the console
but which we can use
for different things later
and therefore we wanna listen
to the form being submitted.
Now we could add a click listener here
to this add expense button
but this would not be
the best way of listening here
because indeed there is
a default behavior
built into the browser
and built into forums on web pages.
If a button,
especially with type submit
is pressed instead of a forum,
this overall forum element
will emit an event
to which we can listen
and that's the submit event.
So it's on this forum
where I wanna react to on submit
and then execute some function
whenever this forum is being submitted.
Now that's a function I'll add here
and I'll name it,
submit handler like this,
add that here,
we just point at submit handler
as we did it
for all the arbor events as well.
Now, the thing here
is that I just set
that this is a default browser behavior
and unfortunately,
a part of this default browser behavior
is that if you do click this button,
the page reloads because the browser
actually automatically sends a request
whenever a form is submitted
to the server
which is hosting this webpage.
So in this case
to this development server
and that's not what we want here.
Instead here, we wanna handle
this form submission
with Java script and manually collect
and combine the data
and do something with it.
Thankfully we can disable
or prevent this default behavior
because we again
get an event object here,
automatically just as
for the change events
and on this object,
we can call a prevent default method.
This is built into JavaScript
nothing reacts specific
this default JavaScript behavior.
We can prevent the default
of this request being sent
and since that request is not sent
the page will now also not reload
because we stay
on the currently loaded page
without sending any request anywhere
and we can continue handling this
with Java script.
So they offer now
we can create our
let's say expense data object here
and now we'll combine
all that entered data.
Of course, if you used this
one state instead of
free States approach
you already have such a combined object
but I don't have that here.
So I will now create it
once the form is submitted
and simply add a title here
and set this to the value stored
in the entered title state,
add an amount property
and set this to entered amount
and a date property
and actually set this to a new date,
constructing a new date
with the built in date constructor
to which then in turn
I passed the entered date
which will parse that date string
and converted into a date object.
Now these property names here,
title, amount and date are up to you
because this is your object.
This year, of course
entered title, entered amount
and entered date
points at these state variables
so to say.
If you used the combined approach
you also might wanna
remap the property names
because later in the app,
I will rely on having
a title amount and date property name.
So make sure that
these property names exist
and hold the correct value
and then for the moment
I will just console log expense data
so that we can see that.
Now, if we reload this
and enter test and 1299
and then pick some date here
if I click add expense,
that's looking good.
We've got this object,
which has all that data stored.
So this now all the works
and we are reacting
to the form submission.
Now, I also wanna clear the inputs
to delete the entered values
when that form is submitted.